welcome to our oath to introduction
let's go over the basics of OAuth 2
including the roles involved how it
works and what benefits it can provide
let's consider the case of John who was
a developer writing a personal finance
application my bucks he's been told by
his boss that he needs to use OAuth 2 to
authorize users of his application by
using a bank's external authorization
server John's application will delegate
the responsibilities of user
authorization to some other service
rather than managing them on its own
first let's take a look at the
high-level roles that exist within an
OAuth 2 framework for simplicity we will
use three roles to start we have the
user the application in the API within
the API there is an authentication
server and a resource server but we will
cover the difference between those two
later with the growing popularity of
OAuth 2 you've almost certainly seen
these roles at play before in your
everyday internet use for instance when
you launch Spotify to listen to your
music you may have chosen the option to
log in with Facebook and Spotify
requests access to your basic
information and profile picture Spotify
is the application in this example and
Facebook is the API now for John's case
it is his my bucks application instead
of Spotify and instead of Facebook he
intends to use the API of various banks
so John is thinking ah I get it now when
I log in to Spotify with my Facebook
account
Spotify grabs my username and password
from Facebook so easy wrong this is one
of the biggest misconceptions about
OAuth 2 frameworks passwords are never
passed around during this process so how
does it actually look let's use John's
personal finance application my bucks
as an example Sarah is a user who wants
to manage her finances
using the dashboard views that Maya
bucks provides so she opens up my box
and wants to connect her Memorial Bank
checking account in order to view her
balances and transaction history in Maya
Bucks dashboards when Sarah clicks to
connect her memorial bank account my box
will make a request to the memorial bag
authorization server which will display
to Sarah a Memorial Bank authorization
screen asking her to authorize my bucks
to access her bank account
you may recognize these types of screens
from other use cases where a prompt will
tell you what permissions an application
is requesting in our Spotify example
earlier Facebook's authorization screen
asked you to authorize Spotify to access
your Facebook account information and
profile picture sarah grants permission
to my bucks to access her account
balances and transaction history via the
Memorial Bank authorization screen that
she was shown that authorization is sent
back to my Bucks by Memorial Bank along
with an authorization code that my Bucks
will use when requesting an access token
to see Sarah's account now is where
technically we come to the distinction
in the API or Memorial Bank between the
authorization server and the resource
server my box is going to take sarah's
authorization grant including the
authorization code that I mentioned and
use it to request an access token from
the authorization server at Memorial
Bank note that none of Sarah's protected
resources her account balances or
information are located on the
authorization server this server is only
responsible for authorizing Sarah as a
user and providing the proper access
token that will eventually allow my
Bucks to retrieve her protected info
from the resource server after accepting
the authorization grant and code that my
Bucks provided on behalf of Sarah
memorial banks authorization server
provides my Bucks with an access token
specifically for Sarah this token will
be included in a request from my Bucks
to the resource server and it provides
my Bucks with access to only the two
things that Sarah granted it permission
to see her account balances in her
transaction history my buck sends the
request to the Memorial Bank resource
server with this access token included
and Memorial Bank identifies that this
token is valid to access those
particular pieces of Sarah's account the
resource server sends the protected
resources that were requested back to my
Bucks and the application now has
Sarah's balances and transaction history
to display in dashboards and metrics for
Sarah note that throughout this workflow
oo-oo 2 serves as the authorization
framework the actual authentication of
Sarah as a user occurs with Open ID
Connect through the use of ID tokens
that are passed along with the
tokens shown here in order for all of
this to work though John needed to
register his my bucks application with
the Memorial Bank API service
independent of any user involvement John
needs to provide the API with my Bucks
name website and the URL to which the
Memorial Bank authorization screen will
redirect the user after they have
authorized access to their account once
my Bucks provides that necessary
information to the Memorial Bank API the
API will send back a set of credentials
to my Bucks these credentials include a
client ID which is a public and unique
identifier that will be used to identify
my bucks as an application and a client
secret which is a private identifier
kept secret between the app and the API
that is used to authenticate my Bucks
when it makes a request for an access
token let's revisit the actual workflow
for a moment remember that the first few
steps in the process are essentially
getting sarah's permission to access the
protected resources in her account in
OAuth 2 there are four different grant
types for different use cases the grant
type that we use in our example is the
authorization code grant type which is
how Sarah granted access for my bucks to
see her Memorial bank account
information this grant type is used for
applications running on web servers
there are three additional grant types
that we won't detail in this video
implicit grants password grants and
client credentials grants once
everything is implemented we have happy
and informed parties all around Sarah
gets to log in once to access all of her
account balances across different bank
accounts and John's boss is thrilled
because my buck supports easy and simple
integration with various banks through
OAuth 2 and it simplifies the customer
experience for Sarah all of the OAuth 2
capabilities that we've described at a
high level in this video are available
with inter systems cache a which can
serve in any or all of the roles shown
in this overview visit learning enter
systems comm to learn more about inter
systems products and technologies